Why Dynamic Memory?

Suppose the user enters how many numbers they want to store.

Wrong approach:

int arr[100];

What if they only need 5?

95 integers are wasted.

What if they need 1000?

Program fails.

Dynamic allocation solves this.

int n;
scanf("%d", &n);

int *arr = malloc(n * sizeof(int));

Memory size matches the requirement.

malloc( ) and calloc ( ) 

malloc and calloc are C library functions used to allocate dynamic memory from the heap during program runtime.
 malloc allocates a single uninitialized block of memory, calloc allocates multiple contiguous blocks and sets them to zero, and both return a pointer or NULL if they fail. 

Key Differences

Arguments: malloc(size) takes one argument (total bytes), while calloc(num, size) takes two (number of elements and size of each element).
Initial Value: malloc leaves memory uninitialized with random garbage values, whereas calloc automatically initializes every byte to zero.
Speed: malloc is generally faster because it skips the zero-initialization step, while calloc is slightly slower due to the clearing overhead. 



malloc () , calloc() and realloc() :

malloc, calloc, and realloc are built-in functions in the C programming language used for dynamic memory allocation.
They allow a program to request and manage memory from the heap while the program is running. 

malloc (Memory Allocation)

What it does: Reserves a single block of memory of a specific size.
Initialization: Does not clear the memory. It contains random leftover data (garbage values).
Syntax: ptr = malloc(size_in_bytes); 


calloc (Contiguous Allocation)

What it does: Reserves memory for multiple blocks of items, like an array.
Initialization: Clears all the memory and sets every byte to zero.
Syntax: ptr = calloc(number_of_items, size_of_each_item); 


realloc (Re-allocation)

What it does: Changes the size of memory you already allocated with malloc or calloc.
Initialization: Keeps your old data safe, but any new space added is not cleared.
Syntax: ptr = realloc(ptr, new_size_in_bytes);
